=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Gtk3::FzfWidget - GTK3 fuzzy-search widget powered by fzf

=head1 VERSION

0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Gtk3 -init ;
    use Gtk3::FzfWidget ;

    Gtk3->init() ;

    my $win = Gtk3::Window->new('toplevel') ;
    $win->signal_connect(destroy => sub { Gtk3->main_quit() }) ;

    my $widget = Gtk3::FzfWidget->new(
        items  => [qw(apple banana cherry)],
        config =>
            {
            theme      => 'dark',
            on_confirm => sub
                {
                my ($w, $sel, $query) = @_ ;
                print "$_->[0]\n" for @$sel ;
                Gtk3->main_quit() ;
                },
            on_cancel  => sub { Gtk3->main_quit() },
            },
        ) ;

    $win->add($widget) ;
    $win->show_all() ;
    Gtk3->main() ;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Gtk3::FzfWidget> is a GTK3 L<Gtk3::Box> subclass that embeds
L<fzf|https://github.com/junegunn/fzf> as a headless process and communicates
with it over its HTTP listen API.  fzf handles fuzzy matching; the widget
handles display, theming, keybindings, ANSI color rendering, image thumbnails,
and result callbacks.

The widget can be embedded in any GTK3 container.  It manages the fzf process
lifecycle, including automatic restart on crash (up to three times), and exposes
a clean callback-based API for integration into applications.

=head2 Requirements

=over 4

=item *

fzf 0.65.0 or later must be on C<PATH>.

=item *

Perl 5.20 or later.

=item *

GTK3 and Glib Perl bindings (C<Gtk3>, C<Glib>).

=item *

C<IO::Pty>, C<IO::Socket::INET>, C<JSON::PP>, C<POSIX>, C<Fcntl>.

=back

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new

    my $widget = Gtk3::FzfWidget->new(
        items  => \@items,
        config => \%config,
        layout => \@slots,
        ) ;

Creates and returns a new C<Gtk3::FzfWidget> instance.  The widget is a
C<Gtk3::Box> subclass and must be added to a window or container before
C<Gtk3->main()> is called.

=head3 Constructor arguments

=over 4

=item items

An arrayref of strings, or a coderef that returns an arrayref of strings.
When a coderef is given it is called once at startup; this allows deferred or
lazy loading of large datasets.

    items => [qw(alpha beta gamma)]

    items => sub { [map { "item $_" } 1 .. 100_000] }

=item config

A hashref of configuration keys.  All keys are optional.  See
L</CONFIGURATION> for the full list.

=item layout

An arrayref of slot names that controls the vertical order of UI elements
inside the widget.  Valid slot names are C<header>, C<query>, and C<list>.
The default is C<['query', 'list']> when no header is configured, or
C<['header', 'query', 'list']> when a header is set.

    layout => [qw(header list query)]

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION

All configuration keys are passed in the C<config> hashref to L</new>.
Every key is optional; the documented default is used when a key is absent or
C<undef>.

=head2 Search and behaviour

=over 4

=item fzf_opts

Arrayref of extra options passed verbatim to fzf on the command line.
Options that conflict with headless mode (C<--height>, C<--tmux>, C<--tty>,
C<--no-tty>) are rejected with a warning.

    fzf_opts => ['--no-sort', '--tiebreak=index']

Default: C<[]>

=item search_mode

Controls the fzf matching algorithm.

=over 4

=item C<'fuzzy'>

Standard fzf fuzzy matching.  This is the default.

=item C<'exact'>

Passes C<--exact> to fzf; substrings must match literally.

=item C<'prefix'>

Passes C<--prefix> to fzf; the query must match at the start of each item.

=back

Default: C<'fuzzy'>

=item ansi

When set to a true value, items may contain ANSI SGR escape sequences (colors,
bold).  The widget renders them as Pango markup.  fzf is started with
C<--ansi>.

Default: C<0>

=item highlight

When true, the characters in each row that match the current query are
highlighted in the match color.  Set to false to disable all match
highlighting.

Default: C<1>

=item multi

When true, the widget operates in multi-select mode.  A checkbox column
appears on the left.  The user can toggle rows with Tab or by clicking.
C<on_confirm> receives all selected rows; if none are explicitly selected the
cursor row is returned.

Default: C<0>

=item wrap_cursor

When true, pressing Down on the last row wraps to the first row, and Up on
the first row wraps to the last.

Default: C<0>

=item page_step

Number of rows moved by Page Down and Page Up.  When C<undef>, the step is
computed at navigation time as the number of currently visible rows minus one,
so Page Down scrolls exactly one screen and the last visible row becomes the
first.  Set to a fixed integer to override.

Default: C<undef>

=item initial_query

String to pre-fill in the search entry when the widget starts.

Default: C<''>

=item initial_selection

Arrayref of original item indices (zero-based) to pre-select when the widget
starts.  Only meaningful in multi-select mode.

    initial_selection => [0, 2, 5]

Default: C<[]>

=item poll_ms

Interval in milliseconds between background polls to fzf for match updates.
Lower values make the display more responsive but increase CPU usage.

Default: C<1000>

=item start_delay_ms

Delay in milliseconds between spawning the fzf process and first connecting to
its HTTP port.  Increase this on slow machines if the widget shows connection
errors on startup.

Default: C<100>

=item port

If set, fzf is told to listen on this specific TCP port.  If not set, the
widget picks a free port automatically.

Default: C<undef> (auto-assign)

=item debounce_table

Controls how long the widget waits after the last keystroke before sending the
query to fzf.  This prevents excessive HTTP traffic when the item list is
large.

The value is an arrayref of C<[$threshold, $ms]> pairs.  Each pair means:
when the total item count is at most C<$threshold> (or C<undef> for any
remaining count), use C<$ms> milliseconds of debounce delay.  The table is
evaluated top to bottom; the first matching pair wins.

    debounce_table =>
        [
        [   1_000,  50],
        [  50_000, 200],
        [ 500_000, 400],
        [   undef, 600],
        ]

Default:

    [
    [    500,  30],
    [   2000, 100],
    [  10000, 200],
    [ 100000, 350],
    [  undef, 500],
    ]

=item lazy_fetch_initial

Number of rows fetched from fzf immediately after a query change.  Only
this many rows are transferred over HTTP before the widget becomes
responsive.  Further rows are fetched on demand as the user scrolls down.

For large result sets this eliminates the delay that would otherwise occur
while downloading tens of thousands of matches before anything is displayed.
The first C<lazy_fetch_initial> rows appear immediately; the rest load
transparently in the background as needed.

Default: C<300>

=item lazy_fetch_page

Number of additional rows fetched from fzf each time the user scrolls
close to the end of the already-loaded window.  Larger values reduce the
number of HTTP round-trips at the cost of fetching rows the user may never
reach.

Default: C<100>

=item lazy_fetch_threshold

How many rows before the bottom of the loaded window triggers the next
page fetch.  When C<local_pos> is within this many rows of the last loaded
row, a new page of C<lazy_fetch_page> rows is fetched from fzf and
appended to the list.

Higher values prefetch earlier, giving smoother scrolling at the cost of
fetching rows the user may not need.  Set to C<0> to fetch only when the
cursor reaches the very last loaded row.

Default: C<50>

=back

=head2 Appearance

=over 4

=item theme

Name of a built-in color theme.  Valid values are C<'normal'>,
C<'dark'>, C<'solarized-dark'>, C<'solarized-light'>.  Individual color
keys in the C<colors> hashref override the theme.

Default: C<'normal'>

=item colors

Hashref of color overrides applied on top of the active theme.  Every key
is optional.  Colors must be valid CSS color strings (e.g. C<'#rrggbb'>).

=over 4

=item widget_fg, widget_bg

Foreground and background of the list area.

=item entry_fg, entry_bg

Foreground and background of the search entry.

=item match_fg, match_bg

Foreground and background used to highlight matched characters.

=item cursor_fg, cursor_bg

Foreground and background of the cursor row.

=item checkbox_fg, checkbox_bg

Foreground and background of the checkbox column (multi mode only).

=item checkbox_selected_fg, checkbox_selected_bg

Foreground and background of a checked checkbox (multi mode only).

=item border_color

Background color of the enclosing window, visible as a border when
C<border_width> is non-zero.

=item header_fg, header_bg

Foreground and background of the header label.

=item info_fg, info_bg

Foreground and background of the hover info area.

=back

=item font_family

Font family used for the list rows and the search entry.

Default: C<'Monospace'>

=item font_size

Font size in points used for the list rows and the search entry.

Default: C<15>

=item tab_width

Number of spaces a tab character expands to in the list display.  Tab
positions are used to correctly remap fuzzy match highlight positions after
expansion.

Default: C<8>

=item header

String displayed in a label above (or wherever the layout places it).  When
set, the default layout includes a C<header> slot.  The string may contain
UTF-8 text.

Default: C<undef> (no header)

=item header_font_family

Font family for the header label.  Falls back to C<font_family> when not set.

Default: C<undef>

=item header_font_size

Font size in points for the header label.

Default: C<undef>

=item width, height

Requested width and height of the enclosing window in pixels.  Special string
values:

=over 4

=item C<'half_screen'>

Half the screen width.  This is the default for C<width>.

=item C<'full_screen'>

The full screen dimension in that axis.  This is the default for C<height>.

=back

An integer value is used directly, clamped to the screen size.

=item min_height

Minimum window height in pixels.  Prevents the window from being sized smaller
than this value by the L</height> calculation.

Default: C<undef>

=item max_height

Maximum window height in pixels.  The string C<'screen'> means the full screen
height.

Default: C<'screen'>

=item border_width

Padding in pixels between the edge of the enclosing window and the widget
content.  Together with C<border_color> this creates a visible border.

Default: C<2>

=item show_buttons

When true, OK and Close buttons appear at the bottom of the widget.

Default: C<1>

=item show_status

When true, the match count label appears at the bottom of the widget.

Default: C<1>

=item status_format

Controls the text of the match count label.  Two forms are accepted:

=over 4

=item sprintf string

A format string passed to C<sprintf($format, $match_count, $total_count,
$selected_count)>.

    status_format => '%d of %d (%d selected)'

=item coderef

A subroutine called as C<$code->($match_count, $total_count,
$selected_count)>.  Must return the string to display.

    status_format => sub
        {
        my ($mc, $tc, $sc) = @_ ;
        return "$mc/$tc" . ($sc ? "  [$sc]" : '') ;
        }

=back

Default: C<undef> (built-in C<"N/M"> format, with selection count appended in
multi mode)

=item row_striping

Arrayref of CSS color strings to alternate across rows.  Each row's background
color is C<$colors[$row_index % scalar @colors]>.  The cursor row always uses
the cursor color regardless of striping.

    row_striping => ['#1a1a2e', '#16213e']

Default: C<undef> (no striping)

=item info_height

Height in pixels of the hover info area.  Only relevant when C<on_hover> is
set.

Default: C<60>

=item image_max_width, image_max_height

Maximum width and height in pixels for thumbnails in the image column.
Only relevant when C<image_fn> is set.

Default: C<64> for both

=back

=head2 Callbacks

All callbacks are optional.  When not set, the corresponding event is silently
ignored.

=over 4

=item on_confirm

Called when the user confirms a selection (OK button, Return, or the
C<confirm> keybinding).

    on_confirm => sub
        {
        my ($widget, $selections, $query) = @_ ;
        for my $sel (@$selections)
            {
            my ($text, $original_index) = @$sel ;
            print "selected: $text (index $original_index)\n" ;
            }
        }

Arguments:

=over 4

=item C<$widget>

The C<Gtk3::FzfWidget> instance.

=item C<$selections>

Arrayref of C<[$text, $original_index]> pairs.  In single-select mode this
always has exactly one element (the cursor row).  In multi-select mode it
contains all toggled rows, or the cursor row if nothing was explicitly
toggled.

=item C<$query>

The current text in the search entry at the time of confirmation.

=back

=item on_cancel

Called when the user cancels (Close button, Escape, or the C<cancel>
keybinding).  The enclosing window is destroyed after the callback returns.

    on_cancel => sub
        {
        my ($widget) = @_ ;
        }

=item on_error

Called when the fzf process fails to start or crashes more times than the
restart limit allows.

    on_error => sub
        {
        my ($widget, $error_message) = @_ ;
        warn "fzf error: $error_message\n" ;
        }

=item on_query_change

Called each time the search entry text changes, after the debounce delay
and after the new query has been sent to fzf.

    on_query_change => sub
        {
        my ($widget, $query) = @_ ;
        }

=item on_selection_change

Called in multi-select mode each time a row is toggled.

    on_selection_change => sub
        {
        my ($widget, $selections, $changed_index, $selected_state, $changed_text) = @_ ;
        }

Arguments:

=over 4

=item C<$widget>

The C<Gtk3::FzfWidget> instance.

=item C<$selections>

Arrayref of C<[$text, $original_index]> pairs for all currently selected rows.

=item C<$changed_index>

The original item index of the row that was just toggled.

=item C<$selected_state>

C<1> if the row was just selected, C<0> if it was just deselected.

=item C<$changed_text>

The original text of the row that was just toggled.

=back

=item on_hover

Called when the mouse pointer moves over a row in the list.  The return value
is displayed in the info area below the list.  Setting this callback also
makes the info area visible.

    on_hover => sub
        {
        my ($widget, $text, $original_index) = @_ ;
        return "details for: $text" ;
        }

=item on_ready

Called once after fzf has started, loaded all items, and the widget is ready
for interaction.

    on_ready => sub
        {
        my ($widget) = @_ ;
        }

=back

=head2 Keybindings

The C<keybindings> key accepts a hashref that overrides individual keybindings.
Each value is a keybinding string of the form C<'modifier+key'> or just
C<'key'>.  Supported modifiers: C<ctrl>, C<shift>.  Supported named keys:
C<return>, C<kp_enter>, C<escape>, C<tab>, C<home>, C<end>, C<page_up>,
C<page_down>, C<up>, C<down>.  Single ASCII characters are also accepted.

    keybindings =>
        {
        confirm      => 'ctrl+o',
        confirm2     => 'return',
        cancel       => 'escape',
        focus_entry  => 'ctrl+q',
        clear_query  => 'ctrl+u',
        select_all   => 'ctrl+a',
        deselect_all => 'ctrl+d',
        toggle       => 'tab',
        }

These are also the defaults.

=over 4

=item confirm

Primary confirm keybinding.  Fires C<on_confirm>.

=item confirm2

Secondary confirm keybinding.

=item cancel

Fires C<on_cancel> and destroys the window.

=item focus_entry

Moves keyboard focus to the search entry.

=item clear_query

Clears the search entry.

=item select_all

Selects all currently visible matches.  Multi mode only.

=item deselect_all

Deselects all currently visible matches.  Multi mode only.

=item toggle

Toggles the selection state of the cursor row and advances to the next row.
Multi mode only.

=back

Navigation keys are fixed and cannot be rebound: Up/Down move one row,
Page Up/Page Down move ten rows, Ctrl+Home goes to the first row,
Ctrl+End goes to the last row.

=head2 Advanced callbacks

=over 4

=item transform_fn

A coderef called for every item before it is displayed.  The return value
replaces the display text; the original text is still returned by
C<on_confirm>.  Highlight positions are computed on the transformed text.

    transform_fn => sub
        {
        my ($text) = @_ ;
        $text =~ s/^prefix://r ;
        }

=item image_fn

A coderef called for every item in the current match list.  If the item has
an associated thumbnail it should return a C<Gtk3::Gdk::Pixbuf>; otherwise
return C<undef>.  The image column is shown only when at least one item
returns a pixbuf.

    image_fn => sub
        {
        my ($text, $original_index) = @_ ;
        return Gtk3::Gdk::Pixbuf->new_from_file_at_scale($text, 64, 64, 1)
            if -f $text ;
        return undef ;
        }

=item position_fn

A coderef that overrides the built-in fuzzy character-position highlighter.
It receives the display text (after C<transform_fn>) and the current query,
and must return an arrayref of zero-based character indices to highlight.

    position_fn => sub
        {
        my ($text, $query) = @_ ;
        my @pos ;
        my $i = index($text, $query) ;
        return [] if $i < 0 ;
        push @pos, $i + $_ for 0 .. length($query) - 1 ;
        return \@pos ;
        }

=back

=head1 PUBLIC METHODS

=head2 set_items

    $widget->set_items(\@items) ;
    $widget->set_items(\@items, $query) ;

Replaces the current item list.  fzf is restarted with the new items.  If
C<$query> is provided it is pre-filled in the search entry; otherwise the
current entry text is preserved.

=head2 reload_items

    $widget->reload_items() ;
    $widget->reload_items(\@items) ;

Reloads the current item list, optionally replacing it.  Equivalent to
calling C<set_items> with the current entry text preserved.

=head2 set_query

    $widget->set_query($text) ;

Programmatically sets the text in the search entry.  Triggers a query change
as if the user had typed the text.

=head2 freeze

    $widget->freeze() ;

Suspends background polling and query processing.  Use before bulk item
replacement to prevent partial display updates.  Resume with L</unfreeze>.

=head2 unfreeze

    $widget->unfreeze() ;

Resumes background polling and query processing after a L</freeze>.

=head2 set_poll_interval

    $widget->set_poll_interval($ms) ;

Changes the background poll interval to C<$ms> milliseconds at runtime.

=head2 get_match_count

    my $n = $widget->get_match_count() ;

Returns the number of items currently matching the query.

=head2 get_total_count

    my $n = $widget->get_total_count() ;

Returns the total number of items loaded into fzf.

=head2 get_query

    my $text = $widget->get_query() ;

Returns the current text in the search entry.

=head2 get_selection

    my $sel = $widget->get_selection() ;

Returns an arrayref of C<[$text, $original_index]> pairs for the current
selection.  In single-select mode this is always the cursor row.  In
multi-select mode it is all toggled rows, or the cursor row when none are
toggled.

Returns C<[]> when no matches are visible.

=head2 get_filtered_list

    my $list = $widget->get_filtered_list() ;

Returns an arrayref of C<[$text, $original_index]> pairs for all rows
currently visible in the list (i.e. matching the current query).

=head2 set_placeholder_text

    $widget->set_placeholder_text($text) ;

Sets the placeholder text shown in the search entry when it is empty.

=head2 Widget accessors

The following methods return the underlying GTK3 widget for the named area.
They are useful for applying extra styling or connecting additional signals.

    $widget->query_widget()   # Gtk3::Entry
    $widget->list_widget()    # Gtk3::ScrolledWindow
    $widget->status_widget()  # Gtk3::Label
    $widget->header_widget()  # Gtk3::Label (undef if no header)
    $widget->info_widget()    # Gtk3::Label (undef if on_hover not set)

=head1 ARCHITECTURE

This section describes the internal design for maintainers.

=head2 fzf communication

fzf is started with C<--listen=PORT> where the port is chosen by binding a
temporary socket to port 0 and reading the OS-assigned port number.

fzf requires a controlling terminal to start.  L<IO::Pty> creates a
pseudoterminal; the slave end is set as fzf's controlling terminal to satisfy
C<isatty()>.  Items are written to fzf's stdin pipe; fzf closes stdin when
loading is complete.

The widget then communicates with fzf over HTTP via B<SocketBackend>:

=over 4

=item GET C</?limit=N>

Fetches up to N matching items from fzf.  Used on query change and for
preemptive prefetch.  All requests use C<offset=0>; higher offsets require fzf
to sort the full match list which blocks its HTTP server on large datasets.

=item POST C</>

Sends an action string to fzf.  Used only for C<change-query(text)> on query
change.

=back

=head2 Backend abstraction

All fzf communication goes through the B<FzfBackend> interface:

=over 4

=item SocketBackend

Wraps L<Gtk3::FzfWidget::Process> + L<Gtk3::FzfWidget::StatePoller>.  Used in
production.  Each HTTP request forks a child process; results come back through
a pipe watched by a Glib IO watch.  The GTK main loop never blocks.

=item MockBackend

In-process case-insensitive substring filter over the item array.  No forks, no
sockets, no timers.  Useful for debugging and testing.  Enable by passing
C<< backend => Gtk3::FzfWidget::MockBackend->new(items => \@items) >> to
C<new>.  Set C<FZFW_DEBUG=1> and C<FZFW_LOG=/tmp/fzfw.log> to trace all
backend calls.

=back

=head2 Process lifecycle

The fzf process is monitored with a Glib timer that calls
C<waitpid(WNOHANG)> every 500ms.  GTK's main loop does not reliably deliver
SIGCHLD to Perl signal handlers (the signal may arrive while GTK is in C
code).  The timer is the standard workaround.

On unexpected exit the process is restarted up to three times with a 500ms
delay between attempts.  After three failed restarts C<on_error> is called.

=head2 Local state

The widget holds items and match state entirely in Perl memory:

=over 4

=item _all_items

Arrayref of all item strings.  Index N in this array is the original item index
N.  Populated once at startup; never modified.

=item _match_indices

Ordered arrayref of original indices that match the current query (the fetched
window).  C<local_pos> is a row index into this array.

=item _visible_set

Hash C<< { original_index => 1 } >> used by the C<TreeModelFilter> visible-func.
Updated on query change and on prefetch completion.

=item local_pos

Integer cursor row index into C<_match_indices>.

=item local_selected

Hashref of C<original_index => 1> for all toggled rows.  Managed entirely in
Perl; fzf is not consulted for multi-select state.

=item _match_count

Total number of matches for the current query as reported by the backend.  May
exceed the length of C<_match_indices> while the prefetch window is being
extended.

=item prefetch_buffer

Number of items to fetch ahead of the visible end of the list (default 100).
When C<local_pos E<gt>= _prefetch_at>, C<fetch_async> is called to extend the
window before the display end is reached.

=back

Navigation (Up, Down, Page Up, Page Down, Tab) operates on C<_match_indices>
only — no fzf communication, no timers.  A query change calls
C<backend-E<gt>query_async> and updates C<_visible_set> then calls
C<_filter_model-E<gt>refilter()>.

=head2 ListStore schema

The internal L<Gtk3::ListStore> has three columns.  Row N corresponds to
C<_all_items[N]> (original index = store row number).  All rows are loaded
once at startup and never deleted.

  Col 0  Glib::String         Pango markup for display
  Col 1  Glib::Boolean        Selected flag (multi mode)
  Col 2  Gtk3::Gdk::Pixbuf    Thumbnail pixbuf (may be undef)

Visibility is controlled by a L<Gtk3::TreeModelFilter> whose C<visible-func>
checks C<_visible_set>.  Cell background (cursor highlight and row striping) is
computed by a C<set_cell_data_func> callback on the text column at paint time,
so no background columns are stored in the model.

=head2 Markup pipeline

For each row the display string is produced as follows:

=over 4

=item 1.

C<transform_fn($original_text)> is called by the caller if set; the result
becomes the display text.

=item 2.

C<_get_positions($display, $query)> returns an arrayref of zero-based
character indices in the display text that match query characters.

=item 3.

C<_make_markup($display, \@positions, $is_cursor, $stripe_bg)> builds a Pango
markup string:

=over 4

=item *

Tab characters are expanded to spaces according to C<tab_width>.  A position
map is built before expansion and used to remap highlight indices to their
expanded equivalents.

=item *

C<&>, C<< < >>, and C<< > >> are XML-escaped.

=item *

Matched characters are wrapped in C<< <span foreground="match_fg"> >>.

=item *

The cursor row is wrapped in
C<< <span background="cursor_bg" foreground="cursor_fg"> >>.

=item *

Striped rows are wrapped in C<< <span background="stripe_color"> >>.

=back

=back

When C<ansi> mode is active, ANSI SGR escape sequences in the item text are
parsed and converted directly to Pango markup.  fzf strips ANSI codes from
its JSON responses; the original item text is read from C<_all_items> instead.

=head2 CSS scoping

Every widget instance gets a unique integer ID (C<instance_id>).  All CSS
rules are scoped using per-instance widget names (e.g. C<#fzf-list-1>,
C<#fzf-wb-1>) to prevent color bleed between multiple C<Gtk3::FzfWidget>
instances in the same process.

=head2 Themes

Four built-in themes are provided: C<normal>, C<dark>, C<solarized-dark>,
C<solarized-light>.  Each defines every color key.  The user C<colors> hashref
is merged on top per key; the user value wins whenever it is defined.

=head1 SUB-MODULES

=head2 Gtk3::FzfWidget::Process

Manages the fzf child process.  Handles spawning, the pseudoterminal, stdin
pipe, death watch timer, restart logic, and delegates HTTP communication to
L<Gtk3::FzfWidget::Client>.

This module is an internal implementation detail and is not part of the public
API.

=head2 Gtk3::FzfWidget::Client

HTTP client for the fzf listen port.  Maintains a persistent TCP connection
and implements C<get_state>, C<get_more_matches>, and C<post_action>.

GET requests deliberately omit C<Content-Length> because fzf rejects GET
requests that carry it.  POST requests include C<Content-Length>.

This module is an internal implementation detail and is not part of the public
API.

=head2 Gtk3::FzfWidget::Layout

Slot-based widget packing helper.  Takes an ordered list of slot names and
packs the corresponding widgets into a C<Gtk3::Box>.  The C<list> slot is
packed with expand and fill; all other slots are packed without.

This module is an internal implementation detail and is not part of the public
API.

=head2 Gtk3::FzfWidget::Messages

Centralised string table for all user-visible messages.  Exported constants
(C<MSG_*>) index into a C<sprintf>-formatted message array.  The C<msg>
function formats a message by index.

This module is an internal implementation detail and is not part of the public
API.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The C<examples/FzfWidget/> directory contains thirty-four fully annotated
example scripts.  C<00_all_options_template.pl> lists every configuration
option with comments and is the recommended starting point.

Notable examples:

=over 4

=item 07_coderef_items.pl

Items from a coderef for lazy or deferred loading.

=item 11_hover_info_area.pl

File metadata displayed in the info area on mouse hover.

=item 13_images_thumbnails.pl

Pixbuf thumbnails in the image column with a file-browser layout.

=item 14_transform_fn.pl

Display text rewritten by C<transform_fn> without affecting the confirmed
value.

=item 22_embedded_in_layout.pl

Widget packed as a sidebar inside a larger application layout.

=item 25_debounce_table.pl

Custom debounce table tuned for large item sets.

=item 34_lazy_fetch.pl

Windowed lazy fetching with 500k items: only the first 300 rows are fetched
on query change; further pages load transparently as the user scrolls.

=back

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

L<Gtk3>, L<Glib>, L<IO::Pty>, L<IO::Socket::INET>, L<JSON::PP>, L<POSIX>,
L<Fcntl>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk3::PreviewPane>, L<Gtk3::FzfPreview>,
L<fzf|https://github.com/junegunn/fzf>

=head1 AUTHOR

nkh

=head1 LICENSE

Artistic License 2.0

=cut
