=pod

=encoding UTF-8

=head1 NAME

Gtk3::PreviewPane - GTK3 widget for previewing text files and images

=head1 VERSION

0.01

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Gtk3 -init ;
    use Gtk3::PreviewPane ;

    Gtk3->init() ;

    my $win = Gtk3::Window->new('toplevel') ;
    $win->signal_connect(destroy => sub { Gtk3->main_quit() }) ;

    my $pane = Gtk3::PreviewPane->new(
        config =>
            {
            theme      => 'dark',
            font_family => 'Monospace',
            font_size   => 13,
            fit_mode    => 'height',
            },
        ) ;

    $pane->load('/path/to/file.txt') ;

    $win->add($pane) ;
    $win->show_all() ;
    Gtk3->main() ;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<Gtk3::PreviewPane> is a GTK3 L<Gtk3::Box> subclass that displays text
files and images side by side in the same widget.  Switching between modes
is automatic based on file extension.

Text mode renders the file content in a scrollable C<GtkTextView> with
vim-like keyboard navigation.  Image mode renders the image in a
C<GtkDrawingArea> with zoom and fit controls.

An optional extra label appears above or below the content area and is
shown only when text is passed to L</load> or L</set_extra_text>.

A status bar at the bottom shows the file name and line count for text
files, or the file name, pixel dimensions, and zoom percentage for images.

=head2 Supported file types

The mode is selected by file extension (case-insensitive).

Image extensions: C<png jpg jpeg gif bmp webp tiff tif svg ico>

Text extensions: C<pl pm py rb sh bash zsh js ts c h cpp rs go java
txt md rst log conf ini yaml yml toml json xml html css>

Any extension not in either list is treated as text.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new

    my $pane = Gtk3::PreviewPane->new(config => \%config) ;

Creates and returns a new C<Gtk3::PreviewPane>.  All configuration keys
are optional.

=head1 CONFIGURATION

All keys are passed in the C<config> hashref to L</new>.

=head2 Appearance

=over 4

=item theme

Built-in color theme.  One of C<'dark'>, C<'light'>, C<'normal'>.
C<'normal'> uses the GTK3 default colors with no overrides.

Default: C<'dark'>

=item font_family

Font family used for text mode display.

Default: C<'Monospace'>

=item font_size

Font size in points used for text mode display.

Default: C<13>

=item show_status

When true, the status bar is shown at the bottom.

Default: C<1>

=item extra_position

Position of the extra label relative to the content area.
One of C<'top'> or C<'bottom'>.

Default: C<'top'>

=back

=head2 Image display

=over 4

=item fit_mode

Controls how images are scaled on initial load and on window resize.

=over 4

=item C<'height'>

Scale the image so its height fills the available area.  This is the
default and works well for tall images and side-by-side layouts.

=item C<'width'>

Scale the image so its width fills the available area.

=item C<'none'>

No automatic scaling.  The image is shown at the current zoom level.

=back

Default: C<'height'>

=item zoom_factor

Multiplier applied on each zoom-in or zoom-out step.  Values slightly above
1.0 give fine-grained zoom; larger values (e.g. 2.0) give coarser steps.

Default: C<1.3>

=back

=head2 Keybindings

    keybindings =>
        {
        scroll_down  => 'j',
        scroll_up    => 'k',
        page_down    => 'ctrl+d',
        page_up      => 'ctrl+u',
        goto_top     => 'g',
        goto_bottom  => 'shift+g',
        }

Each value is a keybinding string of the form C<'modifier+key'> or just
C<'key'>.  The hashref is merged over the defaults so only the keys you
provide are overridden.

Default keybindings are shown in the table above.

Image zoom keys (C<+>, C<->, C<0>, C<f>) are fixed and cannot be rebound.

=head1 PUBLIC METHODS

=head2 load

    $pane->load($path) ;
    $pane->load($path, $extra_text) ;

Loads and displays the file at C<$path>.  The mode (text or image) is
chosen automatically from the file extension.

If C<$extra_text> is provided it is shown in the extra label above or
below the content.  Pass C<undef> to hide the label.

If C<$path> is not readable the content area is cleared and an error
message is shown in the status bar.

=head2 set_extra_text

    $pane->set_extra_text($text) ;
    $pane->set_extra_text(undef) ;

Sets the extra label text without reloading the file.  Pass C<undef> to
hide the label.

=head2 clear_extra_text

    $pane->clear_extra_text() ;

Equivalent to C<set_extra_text(undef)>.

=head2 get_current_path

    my $path = $pane->get_current_path() ;

Returns the path of the file currently loaded, or C<undef> if nothing has
been loaded yet.

=head2 get_current_mode

    my $mode = $pane->get_current_mode() ;

Returns C<'text'>, C<'image'>, or C<undef> when no file is loaded.

=head2 get_zoom_level

    my $zoom = $pane->get_zoom_level() ;

Returns the current zoom level as a floating-point multiplier (1.0 = 100%).
Only meaningful in image mode.

=head1 KEYBOARD REFERENCE

=head2 Text mode

    j / k           Scroll one line down / up
    Ctrl+d          Scroll half a page down
    Ctrl+u          Scroll half a page up
    g               Jump to the top of the file
    G (Shift+g)     Jump to the bottom of the file

All of the above can be rebound via C<keybindings> in the config.

=head2 Image mode

    +  or  =        Zoom in
    -               Zoom out
    0               Reset zoom to 100%
    f               Fit image to the available height

Image zoom keys are fixed and cannot be rebound.

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Standalone text viewer

    use Gtk3 -init ;
    use Gtk3::PreviewPane ;

    Gtk3->init() ;

    my $win = Gtk3::Window->new('toplevel') ;
    $win->set_default_size(700, 500) ;
    $win->signal_connect(destroy => sub { Gtk3->main_quit() }) ;

    my $pane = Gtk3::PreviewPane->new(
        config =>
            {
            theme      => 'dark',
            show_status => 1,
            },
        ) ;

    $pane->load($ARGV[0] // '/etc/hostname') ;

    $win->add($pane) ;
    $win->show_all() ;
    Gtk3->main() ;

=head2 Image viewer with fit-to-width

    my $pane = Gtk3::PreviewPane->new(
        config =>
            {
            theme    => 'light',
            fit_mode => 'width',
            },
        ) ;

    $pane->load('/path/to/photo.jpg') ;

=head2 Extra label above content

    $pane->load('/var/log/syslog', '/var/log/syslog  —  read-only') ;

=head2 Custom keybindings

    my $pane = Gtk3::PreviewPane->new(
        config =>
            {
            theme       => 'dark',
            keybindings =>
                {
                scroll_down => 'n',
                scroll_up   => 'p',
                goto_top    => 'ctrl+home',
                goto_bottom => 'ctrl+end',
                },
            },
        ) ;

=head1 DEPENDENCIES

L<Gtk3>, L<Glib>, L<File::Basename>, L<Encode>, L<POSIX>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Gtk3::FzfWidget>, L<Gtk3::FzfPreview>

=head1 AUTHOR

nkh

=head1 LICENSE

Artistic License 2.0

=cut
